tiproxy: add tiproxy usage in the tidb cloud doc (#21483)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tiproxy-management.md

| large | 120K | 312 MiB/s |

The optional TiProxy instance numbers are 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24. The default two small-sized TiProxy instances can provide 60K QPS and 92 MiB/s network bandwidth. It is recommended that you reserve 20% of the QPS to prevent high latency.

For example, if your cluster's maximum QPS is 100K and the maximum network bandwidth is 100 MiB/s, the size and number of TiProxy instances mainly depend on the QPS. In this case, you can select six small-sized TiProxy instances.

For more details on TiProxy performance, see [TiProxy Performance Test](/tiproxy/tiproxy-performance-test.md).

### Enable TiProxy for a new cluster

To enable TiProxy when creating a new cluster, click the TiProxy toggle and choose the TiProxy size and number.

![Enable TiProxy](/media/tidb-cloud/tiproxy-enable-tiproxy.png)

### Enable TiProxy for an existing cluster

To enable TiProxy for an existing cluster, perform the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/project/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.

> 2. In the left navigation pane, click **Monitoring > Nodes**.

Reviewer: Why do we need to go to the Monitoring page first? I think we can modify a cluster in the Overview page

3. Click **Modify** in the upper-right corner. The **Modify Cluster** page is displayed.
4. On the **Modify Cluster** page, click the TiProxy toggle and choose the TiProxy size and number.

![Enable TiProxy](/media/tidb-cloud/tiproxy-enable-tiproxy.png)

> **Note**
>

> > Enabling TiProxy will cause a rolling restart of TiDB, which causes connections to disconnect. In addition, creating new connections might hang for up to 30 seconds. Make sure that you enable TiProxy in the maintenance window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Enabling TiProxy will cause a rolling restart of TiDB in this TiDB Node Group, which causes connections to disconnect. In addition, creating new connections might hang for up to 30 seconds. Make sure that you enable TiProxy in the maintenance window.
```

### Limitations and quotas

- The TiDB instance number in the TiDB node group must be at least two
- The TiDB instance size must be at least 4 vCPU

> - The TiProxy instance number quota of an organization is 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default TiProxy instance quota of a tenant is 10
```

Author: The other docs use the word `organization`, not `tenant`.

![Disable TiProxy](/media/tidb-cloud/tiproxy-disable-tiproxy.png)

> **Note**
>
> Disabling TiProxy will cause connections to disconnect. In addition, creating new connections might hang for up to 10 seconds. Make sure that you disable TiProxy in the maintenance window.

## View TiProxy

### View TiProxy topology

To view the TiProxy topology, perform the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/project/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Monitoring > Nodes**.
3. In the **Node Map** page, TiProxy topology is displayed in the **TiDB** panel.

![TiProxy Topology](/media/tidb-cloud/tiproxy-topology.png)

### View TiProxy metrics

To view TiProxy metrics, perform the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/project/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Monitoring > Metrics**.

> 3. On the **Metrics** page, click **Server** tab and scroll down to TiProxy-related metrics.

Reviewer: Describe how to switch between multiple TiDB Node Groups?

- TiProxy Connections: The connection number on each TiProxy node.
- TiProxy Throughput: The transferred bytes per second on each TiProxy node. If the maximum throughput reaches the maximum network bandwidth, it is recommended that you scale out TiProxy. To learn about the maximum network bandwidth, see [Decide TiProxy instance size and number](#decide-tiproxy-instance-size-and-number).
- TiProxy Sessions Migration Reasons: The number of session migrations that happen every minute and the reason for them. For example, when TiDB scales in and TiProxy migrates sessions to other TiDB instances, the reason is `status`. For more migration reasons, see [TiProxy Monitoring Metrics](/tiproxy/tiproxy-grafana.md#balance).

### View TiProxy bills

To view TiProxy bills, perform the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), switch to your target organization using the combo box in the upper-left corner.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Billing**. On the **Billing** page, the **Bills** tab is displayed by default.

> 3. In the **Summary by Service** section, TiProxy node cost is displayed under **TiDB Dedicated**, while TiProxy data transfer cost is included in **Data Transfer > Same Region**.

Reviewer: Do we need add description for tiproxy is charge free for the Private Preview stage @joey-yez

Author: The doc is public from the public preview. It won't be committed during private preview.

![TiProxy Billing](/media/tidb-cloud/tiproxy-billing.png)

## Modify TiProxy

> To scale TiProxy, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To scale TiProxy in / out, perform the following steps:
```

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/project/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Monitoring > Nodes**.
3. Click **Modify** in the upper-right corner. The **Modify Cluster** page is displayed.
4. On the **Modify Cluster** page, modify the TiProxy number.

![Modify TiProxy](/media/tidb-cloud/tiproxy-enable-tiproxy.png)

> **Note**
>

> > - Modifying the TiProxy size is not supported. It is recommended that you modify the TiProxy number. If you must modify the TiProxy size, you need to disable TiProxy and then enable it again to choose a different size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Modifying the TiProxy size is not supported. It is recommended that you modify the TiProxy number. If you must modify the TiProxy size, you need to disable TiProxy in all TiDB Node Groups and then enable it again to choose a different size.
```

---
title: Manage TiProxy
summary: Learn about how to enable, disable, view, and modify TiProxy.
---

# Manage TiProxy

This document describes how to enable, disable, view, and modify TiProxy.

> **Note:**
>

> > Currently, TiProxy is only available on TiDB Cloud Dedicated clusters.

Reviewer 2: Here, can we update to: 

TiProxy is currently available exclusively for TiDB Cloud Dedicated clusters deployed on AWS.
